Add full release docs (#42)
TeamNewPipe/documentation: docs/07_release_instructions.md

    - Before removing that information, you may want to send the original changelog to the blogpost writers
- Create a new English changelog in the [`fastlane/metadata/android/en-US/changelogs/`](https://github.com/TeamNewPipe/NewPipe/blob/dev/fastlane/metadata/android/en-US/changelogs/) folder
- The file should be named `NEW_VERSION_CODE.txt`, using the new version code found in the [Preliminary steps](#preliminary-steps)
- The file should have this structure (sections with no points can be removed):
    ```
    New
    • ...

    Improved
    • ...

    Fixed
    • ...
    ```
- Make sure you use the `•` for points (it looks nicer than `-`)
- Capitalize the first letter in each point
- Use English verbs as if you were asking someone to do something, so for example use "Fix abc" and not "Fixed abc"; this allows saving a few characters and using a consistent style
- Prepend `[SERVICE]` to service-only changes (e.g. "• \[YouTube\] Add mixes")
- Summarize only the most important changes from the draft release [kept on GitHub](https://github.com/TeamNewPipe/NewPipe/releases) (it contains all merged pull requests)

> - Make sure the file size is **at most 500 bytes**, in order to **fit [F-Droid's changelog size limit](https://f-droid.org/en/docs/All_About_Descriptions_Graphics_and_Screenshots/#fastlane-structure) (!)**

Author: I disagree 😅

> - Make sure the file size is **at most 500 bytes**, in order to **fit [F-Droid's changelog size limit](https://f-droid.org/en/docs/All_About_Descriptions_Graphics_and_Screenshots/#fastlane-structure) (!)**

Reviewer: Both versions are correct, but I slightly prefer @Stypox's.

    - `git checkout -b release-X.X.X`
- Edit the [`app/build.gradle`](https://github.com/TeamNewPipe/NewPipe/blob/dev/app/build.gradle) file to update the extractor
    - Set the NewPipeExtractor dependency version to a suitable one (usually [the last commit in the NewPipeExtractor repo](https://github.com/TeamNewPipe/NewPipeExtractor/commits/dev))
- Commit the extractor update (if you used a specific version, append `to VERSION` to the commit message)
    - `git add app/build.gradle`
    - `git commit -m "Update NewPipeExtractor"`
- Edit the [`app/build.gradle`](https://github.com/TeamNewPipe/NewPipe/blob/dev/app/build.gradle) file to bump the release
    - Set `versionCode` to `NEW_VERSION_CODE`, i.e. increment the value by 1 as described in the [Preliminary steps](#preliminary-steps)
    - Set `versionName` to `"X.X.X"`
- Commit the version bump (try to stick to the provided commit message template)
    - `git add app/build.gradle`
    - `git commit -m "Release vX.X.X (NEW_VERSION_CODE)"`
- Push the newly created branch to the NewPipe repo
    - `git push upstream release-X.X.X`

## Creating the Pull Request

- Create a Pull Request (PR) from the new branch you just pushed

>     - If you used the correct branch name you should be able to use this url, after changing the X.X.X: https://github.com/TeamNewPipe/NewPipe/pull/new/release-X.X.X

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - If you used the correct branch name you should be able to use this URL, after changing the X.X.X: https://github.com/TeamNewPipe/NewPipe/pull/new/release-X.X.X
```

- Make sure the PR has `master` as the *base* branch and `release-X.X.X` as the *compare* branch
- The PR title should be "Release vX.X.X (NEW_VERSION_CODE)"
- Remove the entire PR template, and instead put these two lines in the description (the `ISSUE_NUMBER` will be replaced later):
    ```
    Do not report regressions here, but rather in the corresponding issue: #ISSUE_NUMBER
    The changelog is also there.
    ```
- Once you have created the PR, note down its number (from now on called `PR_NUMBER`)
- In case some issue would be fixed when the release PR is merged, link them using the "Development" tab on the right, or add a "Fixes #...." in the PR description

> - *for example, check out [#8231](https://github.com/TeamNewPipe/NewPipe/pull/8231) for reference*

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- *Check out [#8231](https://github.com/TeamNewPipe/NewPipe/pull/8231) for reference*
```

- The `## Testing for regressions` section should contain the following lines; more information about how to obtain the APK are given at [Testing APKs](testing-apks)
    ```
    Debug APK (built by our CI in #PR_NUMBER): ...
    Please report **only regressions** (i.e. new issues) here, not issues that were already present in the previous release!
    ```
- An optional `## TODO` section should contain a list of things that still need to be done before releasing, for example regressions that need to be fixed, or a reminder to merge the Weblate changelogs before releasing (use `- [ ]` to create checkbox lists)
- The `## NewPipeExtractor version` should contain a link to the NewPipeExtractor release this new NewPipe version will ship with (i.e. the one set in [Creating the release branch](#creating-the-release-branch))
- Copy the draft Markdown changelog [kept on GitHub](https://github.com/TeamNewPipe/NewPipe/releases) (you finalized it earlier in [Create a changelog](#create-a-changelog)) to the clipboard and paste it under the `## App changelog` section
- Once you have created the issue, pin it using the "Pin issue" button on the right

> - *for example, check out [#8230](https://github.com/TeamNewPipe/NewPipe/issues/8230) for reference*

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- *Check out [#8230](https://github.com/TeamNewPipe/NewPipe/issues/8230) for reference*
```

## Testing APKs

The first time you open the release issue, and then each time some changes are made to the release PR, you should provide a debug APK in the `## Testing for regressions` section.

> - Wait for the Continuous Integration (CI) to finish testing the PR, then download the debug APK it will have built from the "Checks" tab

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Wait for the Continuous Integration (CI) to finish testing the PR, then download the resulting debug APK artifact from the "Checks" tab
```

- Rename it to `NewPipe_vX.X.X_RC1_debug.apk` where `RC1` should be incremented to `RC2` and so on each time a new APK is provided
- Zip it and make sure the `.zip` file has the same name as the `.apk` it contains
- Upload it in the issue description, replacing the `...` placeholder used above

Sometimes it might be needed to also provide a release APK. In this case follow the same steps as above, with these differences:
- Make sure you are on the `release-X.X.X` branch
- Build the **release** APK yourself in Android Studio and sign it with your keys
- Make sure it installs correctly on your device
- Use this naming scheme: `NewPipe_vX.X.X_RC1_release.apk`
- Add a line to the `## Testing for regressions` section, of this form: `Debug APK (built and signed by @YOUR_GITHUB_USERNAME): ...`

## Taking care of regressions (quickfixes)

> The release issue and pull request should stay open for **roughly one week**, so that people can test the provided APKs and give feedback. If a *regression* is reported by some user, it should possibly be solved before releasing, otherwise the app would become more broken after each release. A *regression* is a bug now present in some code that used to run well in the last release, but was then modified in this release (supposedly to fix something else) and is now broken. So the following do not classify as regressions: some videos stop working because YouTube made some changes; the newly introduced big feature XYZ is still not perfect and has some bugs; a random crash reproducible also on previous versions... You get the point. Before releasing, try to fix any regression that come out, but avoid fixing non-regressions, since those should be treated with the same care and attention as all other issues. Maintainers have to be aware that they might be required to fix regressions, so plan your release at a time when you are available.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The release issue and pull request should stay open for **roughly one week**, so that people can test the provided APKs and give feedback. If a *regression* is reported by some user, it should possibly be solved before releasing, otherwise the app would become more broken after each release. A *regression* is a bug now present in some code that used to run well in the last release, but was then modified in this release (supposedly to fix something else) and is now broken. So the following do not classify as regressions: some videos stop working because YouTube made some changes; the newly introduced big feature XYZ is still not perfect and has some bugs; a random crash reproducible also on previous versions... You get the point. Before releasing, try to fix any regressions that are reported, but avoid fixing non-regressions, since those should be treated with the same care and attention as all other issues. As a Release Manager, you might be required to fix regressions, so plan your release at a time when you are available.
```

    - `git log -n 1 --pretty="format:%H" weblate/dev`
- Cherry pick the hash you obtained above into the release branch (the one you are currently on)
    - `git cherry-pick HASH`
- Push the changes to the remote branch
    - `git push origin release-X.X.X`
- Merge the PR you created before
- Delete the GitHub remote branch associated with the PR, i.e. `release-X.X.X` (there should be a button in the PR)
- Close the issue you created before
- Merge `dev` back into `master` (since the PR merged changes onto `master`)
    - `git checkout master`
    - `git pull origin master`
    - `git checkout dev`
    - `git pull origin dev`
    - `git merge master`
    - `git push origin dev` or create another temporary PR and merge it immediately
- Go to [Weblate's Maintenance tab](https://hosted.weblate.org/projects/newpipe/#repository)
- **Press *Unlock***

## Creating the APK

Now on the remote `master` branch there is the release code which you need to turn into an APK.
- In the local repository, check out the `master` branch and make sure it is up-to-date with the remote
    - `git checkout master`
    - `git pull origin master`
- Open the local project in Android Studio

> - Run the Gradle `clean` task using Android Studio's interface, in order to cleanup temporary/cache files that may interfere with reproducible builds

Reviewer 2: Cleanup = noun. Clean up = verb.

```suggestion
- Run the Gradle `clean` task using Android Studio's interface, in order to clean up temporary/cache files that may interfere with reproducible builds
```

    - Double press Ctrl, type `gradle clean`, press Enter
- Make sure leftover files from building RC releases are actually removed, in order to avoid confusion
    - `rm -rf ./app/release`
- Run the Gradle `assembleRelease` task using Android Studio's interface: it will start the process of building an unsigned APK
    - Double press Ctrl, type `gradle assembleRelease`, press Enter
- After a while you should find the APK under `./app/build/outputs/apk/release/app-release-unsigned.apk`

## Having the APK signed by @TheAssassin

> Currently @TheAssassin is the only holder of NewPipe's APK signing keys. Therefore you should send the unsigned APK to him and he will send a signed one back. He will also then publish the signed APK in NewPipe's F-Droid repo.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Currently @TheAssassin is the only holder of NewPipe's APK signing keys. Therefore you should send the unsigned APK to him, after which he will sign it and send it back to you. He will also then publish the signed APK in NewPipe's F-Droid repo.
```

- Rename `app-release-unsigned.apk` to `NewPipe_vX.X.X.apk`
- Generate a signature for the APK file
    - `gpg -b NewPipe_vX.X.X.apk` will generate `NewPipe_vX.X.X.apk.sig`
    - It will also output 'using "FINGERPRINT" as default secret key for signing'; keep track of the `FINGERPRINT` part
- Send an email to @TheAssassin and attach both `NewPipe_vX.X.X.apk` and `NewPipe_vX.X.X.apk.sig`
- If @TheAssassin does not already know it, send him your PGP key `FINGERPRINT` you obtained before

>     - You should send it not using email this time, but another service on which @TheAssassin can be almost sure it is really you (something like 2FA)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - You should not send it using email this time, but using another service through which @TheAssassin can be almost sure it is really you (this is a sort of 2FA)
```

>     - For example, either just send it on the IRC group, or create a GitHub gist with the fingerprint and then give that link to @TheAssassin

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - For example, you can send it on the IRC group, or create a GitHub gist with the fingerprint and then give that link to @TheAssassin
```

- Notify him on IRC that you have sent him an email
- He will send you back the signed APK
- Make sure its name is still `NewPipe_vX.X.X.apk` (rename if it's not the case)
- Install it on your device to see if everything went well (note that installation will work only if your currently installed version of newpipe comes from NewPipe's F-Droid repo or GitHub)
- Tell @TheAssassin to "push the buttons", i.e. publish the signed APK in NewPipe's F-Droid repo.

## Publishing the release

- Go to the draft changelog [kept on GitHub](https://github.com/TeamNewPipe/NewPipe/releases)
- Set `vX.X.X` as the tag name
- Set `vX.X.X` as the release title
- Set `dev` as the "Target:" branch
- Attach the signed APK @TheAssassin sent you
- Publish the release
- Profit :-D

## Blog post

> > I do not know enough about blog post writing and publishing to fill in this section, I'll leave it to @opusforlife2 and @Poolitzer.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The blog post writers need an up-to-date list of merged PRs numbered in chronological order. This is so that they can keep track of what changes have already been detailed in the draft blog post, and which ones still need to be added. So make sure that there is always at least one up-to-date "master copy" of the draft release notes available for them to review.

The blog post should ideally be published before the GitHub release is made (so that the link to it works!), but in case of some delay, it is fine to let the blog post come later. It is far more important to get the release into users' hands sooner.
```

- In order for the blog post to be published, ask @TheAssassin to "press the buttons" again

> - Once the blog post is ready (which, in optimal cases, should happen before the release is published, but that's not a must), add this block of text on top of the release notes on GitHub:

Reviewer 2: Added above instead.
```suggestion
- Once the blog post is ready, add this block of text on top of the release notes on GitHub:
```
